---
title: Project Configuration
link-title: Project Configuration
order: 4
---

# Project Configuration

There are several parameters that can be configured across a project.
These are configured in a file called `config.yml` in the root of the
project directory.

## Example
```yaml
project-name: My project's name
base-path: /
assets:
  source: assets
  dest: static
context:
  static:
    site-title: My Blog
  dynamic:
    authors: session.query(Author).order_by(Author.last_name.asc()).all()
```

## `project-name`
Some kind of string defining your project's name. This is primarily for
informational purposes at present.

## `base-path`
Sometimes you will want to serve your static site from a non-standard
root path on your web server (i.e. instead of serving your site from
`http://somewhere.com/` you may perhaps want to serve it from
`http://somewhere.com/myblog/`). By default, if `base-path` is `/`, it
means that it will be served from the root of your server (e.g.
`http://somewhere.com`). If it has another value, say `/myblog/`, all
hyperlinks generated by **Statik** will have this URL component prefixed
to it.

## `assets`
This allows you to configure asset-related functionality (i.e. for
JavaScript/CSS/image/etc. files that your site may depend on).

### `source`
This defines the source path, relative to your project directory, as to
where to find your static asset files. If this value is `assets` (the
default value), then **Statik** will look for your assets in the
`/path/to/your/project/assets` folder. If, for example, you change this
to `static`, **Statik** will look for your assets in the
`/path/to/your/project/static` folder.

### `dest`
Similar to the `source` path, but defines the name of the folder into
which you want to save your asset files in your generated static web
site. By default, this is also `assets`, just like the default value for
`source`, so by default your assets will be copied as-is from your
source assets folder to `/path/to/your/project/public/assets`. If you
changed this value to, for example, `static`, your source assets will be
copied to the folder `/path/to/your/project/public/static`.

## `context`
This section defines project-wide context variables for template
rendering (variables that will be available to all templates). See the
section on [Template Variables](Templating#variables) for more
information.